Add TiDB Cloud Terraform Doc (#10563)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform/backup-resource.md

---
title: Backup Resource

> summary: Learn how to use backup resource

Author: 这里我感觉用 use 会更好，use 的是 `backup resource` 而不是 `backup`。对于 resource 来说一般都包含了 CURD 操作而不仅仅是 create

---

# Backup Resource

> **Note:**
>
> Because the backup and restore feature is unavailable for Developer Tier clusters. To use backup resources, make sure that you have created a Dedicated Tier cluster. 

## Create a backup with backup resource

1. Copy the following config:

    ```
    resource "tidbcloud_backup" "example_backup" {
      project_id  = "1372813089189561287"
      cluster_id  = "1379661944630234067"
      name        = "firstBackup"
      description = "create by terraform"
    }
    ```

    You can also get project_id and cluster_id from the cluster resource like:

    ```
    resource "tidbcloud_backup" "example_backup" {
      project_id  = tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster.project_id
      cluster_id  = tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster.id
      name        = "firstBackup"
      description = "create by terraform"
    }
    ```

> 2. Here we use the second config and execute `terraform apply`:

Author: 我去掉了`Here we use the second config` ，毕竟两种配置都是可以的

---
title: Backup Resource
summary: Learn how to use backup resource
---

# Backup Resource

> **Note:**
>

> > Make sure you have set up a dedicated cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Because the backup and restore feature is unavailable for Developer Tier clusters. To use backup resources, make sure that you have created a Dedicated Tier cluster. 
```

## Create a backup with backup resource

> 

Reviewer: Please use the steps as 1, 2, 3 instead "first, then, and next" for this section.

Author: I will check all the doc

1. Copy the following config:

```
resource "tidbcloud_backup" "example_backup" {
  project_id  = "1372813089189561287"
  cluster_id  = "1379661944630234067"
  name        = "firstBackup"
  description = "create by terraform"
}
```

> You can also get project_id and cluster_id from the cluster resource like:

Author: 不是。前提是使用了 cluster resource 去创建集群，那么就可以引用 cluster resource 中定义的 project id 和 cluster id

> You can also get project_id and cluster_id from the cluster resource like:

Author: 我会去优化一下说明

---
title: Backup Resource
summary: Learn how to use backup resource
---

# Backup Resource

> **Note:**
>
> Please [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md) first.
> 
> Backup and restore feature is unavailable to Developer Tier clusters. To use backup resources, make sure that you have created a Dedicated Tier cluster. 

You can learn how to create backup for a TiDB Cloud cluster with backup resource in this document.

## Create a backup with backup resource

1. Copy the following configuration example. You need to replace the `project_id` and `cluster_id` values with your own.

    ```
    resource "tidbcloud_backup" "example_backup" {
      project_id  = "1372813089189561287"
      cluster_id  = "1379661944630234067"
      name        = "firstBackup"
      description = "create by terraform"
    }
    ```

>    If you have maintained a cluster resource named `example_cluster`, you can also get project_id and cluster_id like:

Author: 是的，前提是用户也维护了 cluster resource，那么就可以调用它其中的 project_id and cluster_id

        }
    
    Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
    
    Do you want to perform these actions?
      Terraform will perform the actions described above.
      Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
    
      Enter a value: 
    ```

3. Type `yes` to create a backup:

    ```
      Enter a value: yes
    
    tidbcloud_backup.example_backup: Creating...
    tidbcloud_backup.example_backup: Creation complete after 2s [id=1350048]
    
    Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
    
    ```

4. Use `terraform state show tidbcloud_backup.example_backup` to check the state of the backup:

    ```
    $ terraform state show tidbcloud_backup.example_backup
    
    # tidbcloud_backup.example_backup:
    resource "tidbcloud_backup" "example_backup" {
        cluster_id       = "1379661944630234067"
        create_timestamp = "2022-08-26T07:56:10Z"
        description      = "create by terraform"
        id               = "1350048"
        name             = "firstBackup"
        project_id       = "1372813089189561287"
        size             = "0"
        status           = "PENDING"
        type             = "MANUAL"
    }
    ```

> 5. Wait for some minutes and use `terraform refersh`  to update the states:

Author: 这里用 states 更合适。status 不是由于我们 refersh 更新的，states
